--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GOD POWERS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GREEN

Flatten Land  - TERRAIN ALTERER - raises the land under the cursor to a certain
                height so that it can be settled.  Got icon.

Bless Land    - TERRAIN ALTERER - Fixes ruined/lavad/swamped land and also
                allows faster food gathering (and thus village growth) for a
                short amount of time.  Got icon.

Oakskin       - UNIT BUFF - For 30 seconds, all units within range of the spell
                take 25% less damage.  Need icon.

Healing Light - BUFFER - Friendly units within range of the click get a HOT buff
                for X ticks.  Got icon.


RED

Flamering     - UNIT ADDER - Creates a ring of fire that burns any unit inside
                it.  Need icon.

Stone Rain    - TERRAIN ALTERER - Ruins terrain within a range around the click.
                Doesn't unflatten  Got icon.

Flamestrike   - UNIT ADDER - Adds a unit that wanders around for a few seconds,
                doing damage to buildings and units nearby.  Got icon.

Volcano       - UNIT ADDER - Volcanoes ruin the terrain, damage any units nearby
                and destroy any village buildings in range.  Got icon.


YELLOW

Celerity      - BUFFER - For 15 seconds, all friendly units move and attack 25%
                faster.

Cleanse       - BUFFER - Removes debuffs from all friendly units in the circle
                and buffs from any enemy units.  Can counter Celerity,
                Hypnotize, Bloodrage, Plague and Oakskin.  Need icon.

Bloodlust     - BUFFER - For 30 seconds, units do 25% more damage.  Need icon.


Earthquake    - UNIT ADDER- The unit ruins and unflattens land, slowing down an
                enemy village.  Throws units around for a few seconds but
                doesn't do them much damage.  Got icon.


BLUE

Lightning     - UNIT ADDER - A single lightning strike that will hit any unit
                close by.  A direct hit will kill a single unit.  Nearby units
                take damage and are flung.  Got icon.

Tornado       - UNIT ADDER - Tornadoes randomly wander around for about 30
                seconds, wrecking buildings and throwing
                nearby units into the air.  Need icon.

Hypnotize     - UNIT BUFF - About half the villagers or soldiers in range of the
                spell turn to the Blue side for 10 - 30 seconds.  Can only work
                if casting god has less than 100 units total.  Need icon.

Meteor        - UNIT ADDER - A meteor drops from the sky, damaging units and
                throwing them around.  Uses physics, so after it hits the ground it can roll around.  Can slow down an army or a village.
                Takes a moment to fall so you have to cast ahead of an incoming
                army.  Got icon.

PURPLE

Swamp         - TERRAIN ALTERER - Turns terrain into swamp.  Any unit on a swamp
                gets a 1-tick debuff that slows it; thus, once the unit leaves
                the swamp the debuff goes away.  Got icon.


Plague        - BUFFER - All enemy units within a circle take damage over time
                and are greatly slowed.

Hero          - UNIT ADDER - Creates a huge enemy creature with lots of
                hitpoints.  Must be cast near one of your villagers. Acts on its
                own to find and kill enemies.  It's basically the Knight from
                Populous.  Hmmm...sacrificing your villagers to make it stronger
                might be interesting.  Cannot be affected by Bloodlust or
                Oakskin, but CAN be Healed or Hypnotized.  Got icon.

Armageddon    - UNIT ADDER - Removes all walkers and adds an equal number of
                random military units, which are no longer under the player's control.  They seek out and kill each other.  First god to lose all their followers loses..  Got icon.


UNITS The player can create:

Walker - The basic unit of Planitia.  You start with a handful.  They make and store food and generate the mana for god powers.  When food storage gets big enough, they build new houses so more walkers can spawn.  They can flatten land if necessary so the player doesn't HAVE to cast "Flatten" but they are slower than the spell.  All other units are converted Walkers, so building an army reduces your mana recharge.

Archer - Basic ranged unit.  Can fire arrows at enemy.  Arrows are units that fly using physics and do good damage to anyone they hit.  Archers don't have a lot of hitpoints so they can easily be killed in melee.

Swordsman - Basic melee unit.  Have good hitpoints and do good melee damage, but are slow.

Barbarian - Basic skirmisher unit.  Lower hitpoints than swordsmen but much faster.  Dangerous to archers.

Other units:

Sheep/Birds/Trees - Non-interactive, created randomly.  Just stuff to make the world feel more alive.

Hero (as the god power above)

Probably more later.











Combos:

Bloodlust + Oakskin - Cast these on your villagers just as an enemy army arrives
to give them a nasty surprise.  Or on your army as the battle starts to make it
a curb stomp.  Just watch out for Cleanse, which can remove both of these
effects.

Hypnotize + Bloodlust - Convert half an enemy army and then buff them so they
can kill the other half.

Plague + Flamering - Pin an enemy army or Shade of Ending inside a flamering
long enough for it to kill them.

Earthquake + Flamering - With Earthquake ruining the land and stunlocking
villagers in place and Flamering setting them on fire, this is a real
village-killer.

Celerity + Bless Land- Gets villages going REALLY fast, even if you don't have
Flatten.

Plague + Meteor - Plague slows down an army making it easier to hit it with a
meteor.

Celerity + Bless Land- Gets villages going REALLY fast, even if you don't have
Flatten.

Hero + Celerity - By default the Shade moves fairly slowly. Cast Celerity on it
to get it to its target faster and have it do more damage.

Hypnotize + Hero - The Hero must be created near one of your villagers.
Hypnotize enemy villagers and you can create the Hero right in their village!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SINGLE PLAYER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VILLAGES
--------

*  Village growth.  A village will start with three walkers, one house and one
   field (this is not a unit, it's a special terrain type).  Walkers will walk
   to nearby fields and gather food.  Once the player has enough food in his
   bank, a new walker is created.  This walker will be tagged to a house -
   unless all houses already have five walkers.  If so, this walker will find
   a square of flat land nearby (at least one square from any existing house)
   and build a new house, which it will then attach itself to.  It will then
   start gathering food from a nearby field - unless all are full, in which case
   it will create a field nearby (adjacent to ether an existing field or house)
   and start gathering from that.  Shacks can be randomly rotated, but houses
   manors will line up.

*  If walkers cannot find a nearby piece of flat land that is not farm/house
   then they will create a piece of flat land by raising/lowering a nearby cell
   of land.  This will take a while, but it does mean that you don't NEED
   Flatten in order for your village to grow quickly; an ability like Celerity
   will also make this go faster, possibly for less mana.  We might be able to
   get away with using "attacking" as the means for flattening land; celerity
   already improves attack speed which would mean that if we use the same speed
   for flattening it'll affect both.

*  Houses can grow into larger/more effective versions.  Houses hold 3 (small
   shack), 4 (looking something like our current house) and 5 people (much
   bigger house, maybe goes outside the bounds of the cell a little).  The more
   people inside a house, the more mana it generates (that is, five people in
   the same house will generate more mana than five people in five different
   houses).

NETWORKING
----------

Pretty simple.  One player is the server, up to 3 others can join.  The game goes until only one player has Walkers left.

